# Relivator 1.3.0

**✅ Relivator 1.2.6 uses the following dependencies (only some are listed)**: Next.js 15, React 19, TypeScript 5.5/5.6, Tailwind 3/4, tRPC 11, Clerk 5, Auth.js 5, ESLint 9 (with multiple plugins like typescript-eslint 8, react, unicorn, sonarjs, perfectionist, tailwindcss, readable-tailwind, import-x, jsx-a11y, security, markdown, mdx, json), Biome, Stripe, Million, Reliverse, next-intl, shadcn/ui, radix-ui, react-query, pnpm, zod, cn, turbo, Drizzle (Postgres, MySQL, SQLite, Neon, Railway, PlanetScale, Turso), GSAP, SWR, Resend, react-email, next-themes, Putout, Flowbite, Udecode, Slate, uploadthing, Radash, CSpell, TypeStat, Lucide & Radix Icons, Vercel & Loglib Analytics, Axios, Day.js, Embla Carousel, Execa, Math.js, UnJS libs (consola, fs-extra, pathe, etc), and much more

**[upd. 18.08.2024]** You can now try out the first published Reliverse Addon – [@reliverse/fs](https://github.com/reliverse/fs#readme), which is already available and used in Relivator! **🎉 The upcoming Relivator 1.3.0 will have as few dependencies as possible.** Everything will work thanks to @reliverse/addons. Everything will be separated into its own libraries and will be published on npmjs and/or jsr. You will be able to install exactly what you need, including functionality and UI. You will have two options. One is to install the addons the classic way using 'package.json'. The other option is that all these addons can also be installed in a style inspired by shadcn/ui, where you keep all the content directly in your project (as it is currently in test mode in Relivator 1.2.6 (please check `addons` folder or run `pnpm addons`)), although the first option will be recommended for the most use cases. 'addons' folder already contains many cool things, especially related to codemods. It also includes the @reliverse/academy game, where you can check how good you know JavaScript/TypeScript, React/Next.js, Relivator/Reliverse, and even ESLint, ecosystems (you will even find there table of records and will can contest with other players if you share data/players.json and data/progress.json save files to them; the game has also achievement system).

**What About the Future? Any News on 1.3.0?**

**🎉 The upcoming Relivator 1.3.0 will have as few dependencies as possible! Finally!**

I'm ([blefnk](https://github.com/blefnk)) working to automate the Relivator's developer experience as much as possible, including the installation process. The upcoming version 1.3.0 will feature significant automated installation. If you wish to try the initial alpha version of one of my many automation scripts, use the `pnpm deps:install` (or `pnpm deps:install-all`) command. This script already allows you to install and remove project packages, and it also works as a linter. You can check the comprehensive number of predefined commands configured inside the 'scripts' section of the 'package.json' file. However, before running this script, you should manually install the essentials:

- `npx npm add typescript tsx npm @mnrendra/read-package @clack/prompts`
- `npx npm add fs-extra pathe fast-npm-meta semver @types/semver redrun axios`
- `bun|yarn|pnpm dlx jsr add @reliverse/core` (or: `npx jsr add @reliverse/core`)

Thanks to @reliverse/addons, everything now works smoothly with fewer dependencies. In the future, each feature and component will be split into its own library and published on [npmjs](https://npmjs.com) and/or [jsr](https://jsr.io), so you can install only what you need. With the future Relivator 1.3.0 version, you won't have to deal with unnecessary components in web templates anymore. You get the core package and can add features and UI components as you need them.

The 'addons' folder is divided into two parts: terminal context and browser context (it's everything, excluding the 'addons/scripts' folder). The 'addons/scripts' folder contains functions used by the CLI (command line interface), while the 'src' and 'addons/*' folders (excluding 'addons/scripts') are for the browser, since the browser doesn't support certain JS features. So, while 'addons/scripts' has everything needed for the whole app, not everything can import from 'addons/scripts'.

You’ll have two installation options: the classic method using 'package.json' or a new approach inspired by shadcn/ui, where you keep all the content directly in your project (currently in test mode in Relivator 1.2.6—check the `addons` folder or run `pnpm addons`). While the classic method is recommended for most cases, feel free to explore the new approach!

The 'addons' folder is already packed with many exciting features, especially related to codemods, and includes the **@reliverse/academy game**. This game allows you to test your knowledge of JavaScript/TypeScript, React/Next.js, Relivator/Reliverse (make food/tea/coffee before trying this test—it has a lot of questions!), and even ESLint v9 ecosystems. It features a leaderboard, enabling you to compete with others by sharing `data/players.json` and `data/progress.json` save files. Plus, an achievement system keeps you motivated!

I can’t wait for you to experience the new and improved Relivator 1.3.0! By the way, the items in the [✅ Roadmap](./ROADMAP.md) section will finally be checked off! But to make 1.3.0 truly stable, production-ready, and just great, let's first work together on Relivator v1.3.0-canary.0, which is coming soon! If you want to get it even faster, there is now a 'dev' branch. We recently opened the project pages on financial support platforms, and currently, any contribution grants you access to the 'dev' branch. Thank you for your attention!
